I was reading some books by Norwegian authors for the last couple of months.

First one was "Growth of the Soil" by Knut Hamsun. I didn't know what to expect.
I knew from the comments that it was a classic, the comments were mixed though,
someone said it was too slow (which usually means a good thing from my
perspective).

I liked the book a lot. Probably because I could relate a little bit with the
main guy, but also because the people stories spread across the book were
interesting and... real. Reminded me about Steinbeck a little bit, but... no one
can touch Steinbeck in terms of small people stories. No one!

So I wanted to read more Norwegian books. And I've realized (not without the
help of my wife) that I have never read "A Doll's House", which is a play by
Henrik Ibsen. It was a short fast read. Light and fun and to the point.

Those Norwegians can write! I thought. So I grabbed another book. "The Birds"
Tarjei Vesaas. Honestly I don't know how to pronounce that name, but the book is
special. It's like a virtual reality simulation. It allows you to spend time as
this young man with a mental illness. With zero cliches.

Now I wanted to only read Norwegian authors till the day I die, which I hoped
will not come soon. I thought I will try something modern. Really modern. And
fun. Meaning, not a classic, not on a serious topic, not a demanding read. I've
learned about Jo Nesbo, the modern Norwegian author of detective thriller novels
(krimis for ze Germans). He has this cycle of novels about Harry Hole
(pronounced more like "holly" and has nothing to do with Cobain's wife's band).
Anyway, I've grabbed the first book in the series. And I hated it. Ok-ok, not
really hated it, but it wasn't fun to read. I was expecting a page turner, fun
adventures, with the required Scandinavian twists: rape, bodily mutilations,
cutting people in pieces... I'm not joking, when the book reader was showing 50%
that's where they find this one guy detached from all of his extremities. All of
them.

But the book was boring. Bursting with cliches and sayings that you learn about
from soviet English textbooks but then never hear anyone using those in real
life.

Anyway... Not trying to bash on Nesbo, I'm sure he has better books, but I will
not try any for a long time. Thankfully there are more classics and modern
books. And hopefully one day I will learn norsk sufficiently to be able to read
some original works.
