Every now and then there will be a CEO running his or her mouth about... the evolution of a workplace. Usually it means they are trying to see you a co-working space, an open office design (I wish people who invented this particular setup have a very long vacation in hell), a food-catering service or an app or two. Whatever it is a CEO (or a co-founder, investor, investor's boyfriend's grandmother) will come to a conclusion that the latest-greatest-coolest-toppest workplace is a so-called flexible work-space. Confused? Let me translate. It means you don't have a workplace but you still have to come to an office that's usually located not close to where you live.

As my friend Oli says: "let's take a step back".

So, flexible work-space. You come to this CEO's office and commence a game of music chairs. Remember those? Kids? People, who were in kindergarten and primary school before COVID-19? You run around the room while the music is playing (other kids do the same and all of them are your enemies, you have no friends or allies in this game, it's as brutal as life itself). When the music stops you must plant your ass on a chair. The catch? If the number of kids is N you get N-1 chairs.

But this would be an easy level of flexible workplace (work-space? I'm as confused as you are). The easy level is for wimps, the people who can do their work with a tiny macbook air, opening it every once in a while to answer 20 emails, generate 50 more emails, post, like, subscribe, unsubscribe and quickly check on that bitcoin price. This is the level for top management, their friends, their grandmas' boyfriends.

Let's take another step back.

In comes an engineer. And IT guy. A developer, a devops, a computer geek. A lonely ninja wielding his IDEs and Emacses and key-chords and Stackoverflows and coffee mugs and Metallica t-shirts. She has a laptop, three big monitors, a mechanical keyboard a mouse, an usb-hub and maybe an air humidifier (oh and a lava lamp! one cannot produce quality software or tame a Cthulhu-level IT system without a lava lamp! it's against everything that the bible stands for!). And now she needs to run around the office space with a whole cart loaded with hardware and wires (it's 2020, where's my wireless electricity, you fools?!). And she needs to look for an empty desk. And maybe there is one and maybe there isn't. And maybe the available one is on the top floor or in the basement. Maybe it's by a window and maybe it has a nice open view facing the two doors of the office toilet. When she finds (if she finds!) an empty desk, she needs to set everything up. By the time she's done, it's lunch time. Oh, and don't forget to break everything down and clean the desk in the evening after you done. This is a flexible environment. This desk doesn't belong to you. You should brace yourself for tomorrow's desk hunt.

This is the level that most people will have to deal with. The people that do the actual work. You know, build those apps, keep those services up, quality check those API layers and databases and keep the patches up-to-date and read "the angry orange website" 10 times a day. These people cannot do their work with a macbook air. They need their work-space once and for all.

So please, when you hear this flexible open space disruption, just walk away. Let them enjoy their own bullshit as much as they want to. We have stuff to do, lives to live, travel the informational highway. Forever. Into the 8-bit sunset.
