The last day of 2020. I cannot not write anything about it today while it's
happening. Well, for me it's just beginning to happen, but I have already seen
my NZ friends are chilling at a beach basking in the summer sun (those upside
down kiwi life is confusing).

Anyway, out Christmas tree AKA new year's tree AKA yolka has been standing
beautifully for the last two weeks. Planted temporarily in a red bucket full or
reach fertilized by our worms soil. The tree has actually started to smell of
pine a couple of days ago. I think it's decided to grow roots in the bucket.

The chocolate cake is ready and the infamous Russian salad with a french name
Olivier is in works. But that's not the main thing. (I know, how can a chocolate
homemade cake not be the main thing). The main thing is that another year of the
Rat is over, done, finished. So next year is a transitioning year for me (a Rat)
and my wife (also a Rat but a more cute one than I am). I will probably write
some thoughts down when it actually happens, but for now I'm just grabbing the
edge of my seat to make sure I don't lose the control (of which I have almost
none at this point).

So, what did I do in the morning oh the last day of 2020? Read about Information
Theory. Sounds smart and it's probably is, but when I say I was reading about
it, I mean I was looking at this simple logarithm for 30 minutes to try and
understand it. (I have a file of notes on it though, and I don't think that's
the amount of notes a person needs to understand a logarithm formula, but... I'm
not that person).

Anyway, just got a request from my wife: "Make some coffee!" So gotta run. Drink
coffee, eat food, meat the 2021 and dive into it to get all the gifts and
surprises.

P.S. OK, I'm back (the coffee is cooking, ah the technology!). If you, future
me/my avid readers are wondering where are all the smart philosophical thoughts
about the corona virus and the US election and the global heating and the new M1
chip... These are all available everywhere else in the Internet. This is my
website. My thought for today is: Russian cottage cheese pancakes (сырники) are
a wonderful breakfast!
