I did a thought experiment yesterday that had more effect than anything Tony Robbins might say.

It's about embarrassment. You know, that feeling, when you do something stupid in public or even in front of a single person. And then you go home and you keep feeling that feeling more and more until it becomes this embarrassment about embarrassment and you feel your face getting hot and your heart pounding. Basically you're trying to give yourself a heart attack because you did something stupid (and maybe not even intentionally stupid, like falling on your face accidentally because it was slippery).

That feeling has been bugging me all my life. And from what I know, other people often have it. The feeling is the worst because it also inhibits your future behavior and actions. Like, you think, well, I could try talking to this person but that one time I remember I said "hi" to this guy and he's made a face and everyone stared at us... like, everyone and then he has just turned away and I was standing there like an idiot. I better not try this again. Just don't talk to people. Ever.

And if you're like me (and since I'm writing this down for myself -- you are me!) you've also heard many times how you are the only person who remembers that kind of stuff from your past. The guy that didn't say "hello" back, the people that saw that happening -- all of them don't remember, and don't even try to remember that situation. And I always thought, yeah, that makes sense probably, but... I was still embarrassed about being embarrassed that time or another. I kept imagining people sitting in their kitchens on Saturday mornings remembering and even discussing out loud how I messed up that time, how I fell down, how I tried to make a joke and no one laughed, how I had my pants' zipper unzipped all day in front of everyone, how I was too loud and everyone hear me saying personal things about my dreams...

So yesterday... Yeah, literally at age 36.5 I've decided to try this hat on: I've tried to remember something embarrassing that someone else did. Anyone, friend, foe or stranger. Ever. I've tried really hard. And, you've guessed it, I couldn't remember a single situation. And my memory is quite good (even now). It's so good it's often uncomfortable the amount of useless facts I remember. But I couldn't recall how anyone did something embarrassing. And while I was trying to do that I sort of understood why.... At least one of the many whys. I couldn't remember it because I haven't felt embarrassed about anything I didn't do. No, really. Think about it. Like, people say it in the movies a lot: "Oh, you've made us so embarrassed..." But even then they were embarrassed. It's like there's no empathy for embarrassment. We can feel each other's joy or sadness or, of course, pain. But... we cannot feel each other's embarrassment that well or at all. Or even if we do it's so... transient that we don't remember any of it. And we were probably embarrassed ourselves in the beginning anyway.

Now, I could remember one situation. About my friend peeing in my bed at night that one time he stayed over because his parents were away. We were like 10 or 11 years old. And the only reason I can remember it is that every time I meet him now, which happens every several years, he keeps retelling me that story. I don't know why, but telling that story makes him really happy. So I guess it's not even an embarrassing story. And when I recalled it I didn't really feel embarrassed about him or me. It was just this story from my childhood. Not the worst story either.

Anyway, if you're reading this, you're not me and you have this problem with keep remembering your own embarrassing moments, try the experiment -- switch roles and see for yourself. No one remembers this stuff outside themselves. Now you are free, go an embarrass the fuck out of you!
