I'll be watching a youtube video, right? A really good one. Like, a person clearly spent a lot of time preparing the material, synthesising the interesting bits, figuring out a way on how to simplify it and present as a 10 minute (or 20 minute if presenter is someone born in USA), making the video, editing it, etc. And then I scroll to the comment section and there will be a comment like "You are an idiot and your mom is fat!" Or something even more terrible, like "You are totally wrong, lol!", which is like the whole reason the Internet exists, right? Telling people they are wrong...

Or there will be comments for someone's insta photos or someone's drawing, someone's song or even someone's indie game. And the comments will just be violent, stupid and 100% negative (funnily enough, most of the start with "I don't want to sound like a jerk, buuut...").

And I think I know the reason. Like, the mechanical reason. No psycho-emotional-artsy-fartsy-bull-shit. Mechanically, it's takes a lot of effort to make something, like a video, and it takes even more effort to publish it, especially if it includes the author herself or even just the voice (we all know how we feel when we hear our own voice recorded secretly and suddenly played back to us). And it's waaaay easy to just click inside the comment box and start typing and then hit "send" or "Save" or whatever. Most of the times you don't even need to register or login to leave a comment. So if you wanna be mean, it's really easy to be mean. Even being accidentally mean is so easy it's sometimes unavoidable (I did it several times, cause I didn't take good care of what I was trying to say and just typed and submit and then hurt someone's feelings for no reason except my stupidity).

The answer might be: balance things out. Make commenting as difficult. One way that I can see is: if you want to comment on some video on youtube you must have published public videos, at least ten of those, real ones (just for example). The same goes for other platforms where people publish their art, work or artwork. Then you know what it's like to show your work to everyone, you know what goes into making that work and you probably are more experienced and ready to comment on some work from the same media. Also the receiving author will know that you're not just a random dood from cyberspace, bored and horrible, but you might actually know what you're talking about cause otherwise you wouldn't have the feature to comment.

As a software developer I find it's also easy to implement, so I don't see why not have a system of ... basically rank. Nobody gets to post nothing. An author can engage in conversation with other authors. And even then it might depend on the ranking system. Like: you posted 10 videos... you can like/dislike other videos, you posted 10 more, you can leave emojis, you posted a 100, now you get to write comments with like words and sentences and exclamation points.

And I know, some people fuel their ego or just get motivated by reading comments like "you're great!", but I think (and I'm just a horrible nobody) that this is not a good motivation. The motivation should come from you digging the process and having some vision or just experimenting cause you enjoy it or just getting to practice a craft. The motivation should never come from your drinking buddies cheering you on. A lot of great work/art was done behind closed doors, in bedrooms offline, inside minds and empty hallways, on a bus while commuting to work for the millionth time. Without any comments.