This is one of those posts when I'm feeling all smart and stuff cause I have discovered this magic thing called water.

But I do want to write this down. For the sake of writing it down.

I've been thinking about success lately. My success. Humble, not-generating-any-headlines success. And also failures. Cause you cannot have one without the other. And I've noticed a theme. I have been successful, in a big life-changing way, twice: 1. I've became a software developer (a coder, a programmer, a question-mark-shaped-button-pusher, an engineer, although that last point is still being argued questioned and laughed at by the real engineers); 2. My fitness level at 37 is not... terrible, especially for being a professional benchwarmer (I literally get paid for sitting on my ass... productively). I have also failed so many times, that my ego won't let me give any examples here publicly (also, it's boring to write and read about things-that-could-have-happened-but-did-not). But one of those: I wanted to be a writer. As in, writing fiction, stories for people to read and enjoy. I've spent 5 years doing that (writing daily in the mornings and sometimes evenings, making everything else second priority to my writing, etc.). I wrote one good short story and got published and got me _some_ very-very-very-very narrow recognition at a retreat for young writers (I wasn't 37 back then, more like.... 31).

And I think I know why success happened and why failure happened. In those particular cases. It's easy... and a bit hard to admit. But, I've became a professional software engineer because I liked coding. I wasn't good at it, but I liked the process. I was getting into the mythical flow state, I was losing track of time, I enjoyed reading computer science books instead of a yet another Stevie King's novel. I didn't care if I ever become a software engineer. I just wanted to code. And when I got an opportunity to do this _and_ I got paid for it... well, that just meant that now I can write code even more! No worrying about paying bills, helping mom, buying shit I don't need to prove to myself I'm not poor anymore (oops, psychological problems overflowing, must. stop. must. focus.) I am also one of those weird mutant people that actually truly enjoy working out. As in, intensive, "I is gonna puke nowz!", working out. Not because I "want to look good nekkid" but because I really-really like the process, how I feel during the time I workout, how I feel before, after. And it's the same deal as with programming: I enjoy reading training manuals and memoirs of some coach or athlete, I read through forums on muscle-building obsessed websites, I spend more money then the most people on things like supplements, kettlebells, resistance bands, push-up handles, ab-rollers, massage and mobility doodads. I even had an olympic size barbell in my apartment. Apartment! Like, small one! (The length of an olympic barbell is 220 cm and it weights 20 kg... and if you don't understand the metric system... I mean, it's 2021... there's this things called science... anyway... enjoy your new pickup truck).

And I failed as a writer cause at some point, quite early actually, I've stopped enjoying the process and started pursuing this vision of... me being a famous author that people recognise on the street, come to book stores to meet and get a signed copy of the latest super-bestseller that only my brilliant mind could produce. And it's very hard, at least for me, to do anything good enough if I don't enjoy the process and only looking for the rewards, the outcomes of that process. It's like washing dishes... I'm not going to concentrate and make sure every plate is clean and rinsed and dried and placed in a correct sizing order on a correct plate holding place... I'm just going to rush through it and then wonder the next day why the food tastes so soapy.

I guess the morale, if there is any, is that: enjoy the process. And if you don't enjoy the process, don't bother hoping for great things to happen. Also try to bail out and try something else. Or even a crazier idea... maybe try to learn to like the process you're already doing. Maybe stop waiting for the pay day. Is it possible? I don't know. I've hated programming for many years (yep, when I was the brilliant writer no one knows about), I've found a way to enjoy it again. The outcome doesn't really matter. It's the same for everyone. There's no surprise ending. You're not in a M Night Shyamalan's flick.