Monday. Darkness and despair. What have you done this weekend? Have you achieved happiness? Have you made progress on your personal development, your side hustles, your projects? Have you lived every second like it's the last one? You know... All that bullcrap that supposed to motivate you but actually makes you sad and depressed.

Mondays are the worst. They are reminders. To some of us not all. You work because you get paid. Even if you love your job. It's still a job. There's no escape. It's a trap and it's closed a long time ago, before your parents have even decided to have sex for the first time. So it's not your fault. But you get to live this horrible mess until you die and then... There's nothing, but you should definitely pick up a religion so that it doesn't feel like a complete senseless joke.

Mondays, man. Can it get any worse? Well, ol' chump, I'm so glad you've asked. I, me, myself have singlehandedly found a way to make Mondays even worse. Like... Mondays on steroids. You wanna know how I did it don't you? You wanna follow me into the abyss? Fine!

So... I've started doing this intermittent fasting thing a long time ago (before it got trendy, like it's the new vegetarianism, goddammit!). And now I got to my latest experiment with it: 36 hours of no food starting.... Sunday night. Yeah, no food all Monday. And food is one of those things that's kind like cocaine for the rich rock starts that snorted themselves out of this world by the time they got to celebrate their 28th birthdays. Maybe they did things right. Anyway, food that helps me not be sad (dopamine mostly, but who's counting) is not available to me in the darkest hours of a workweek. Am I a genius or what?

Half of today's Monday is gone already. I'm not thinking about food though. I'm thinking about Clojurescript, CSS and escape routes from the trap. And I know there's no escape but I cannot help not thinking about it. Especially when I'm not eating and it's cold and raining.

I totally recommend it!