I get motivated from watching other people work. Even if it's <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUmLRMERmJrmUtgnbFfknAg">Randy</a> banging on a keyboard and yelling at a badly rendered 3D figure. I will watch his video and immediately want to code something myself. Most of the time it's... work stuff but sometimes it's a graphical timer written in C or yet another web app for budgeting, guitar training, progress tracking...

I even get motivated by reading about other people's work. I've been recently going through "The Dream Machine" and the prologue itself made me excited about getting back to the good ol' 'puter and program something new and exciting (probably a bugfix for that pesky browser back button).

And now I'm thinking. I get motivated by seeing other people doing stuff. And since I'm definitely not special, others are motivated the same way. That means... A long-long-long-long-really-freaking-long time ago there was a mutated monkey standing upright twiddling its thumbs, cause what else are they good for. But unlike all the other mutated monkeys it's suddenly started to do something... creative. Maybe a rock was looking less like a rock and more like a.... round thing... that's really good at rolling, so if you bang it against another rock to make it even more round like... Nah, it wasn't probably the wheel or a wheel at first. It was probably something to do with sticks... That's it, the monkey was making the world's first ever shit-on-a-stick! It doesn't really matter, the point being, it was doing something creative. Not working, but creating.

And there were several mutated monkeys standing beside the creative one. They were all twiddling their thumbs of course, thinking: "What a waste of thumbs twiddling thumbs..." And maybe even yelling something loud in a primal feat of existential rage: "Stop being creative! It will all end badly!" And there was probably on more mutated monkey, probably the one in the back row, that was feeling that it too wanted to attach shit to a stick. It was itching to try it and it did. And then it did it another way, or tried to attached two shits to one stick and then two sticks to one shit...

I am pretty sure that this whole creativity bit started like that. And now we have computers that can show us videos of other computers dancing. None has any wires attached.