So, a funny thing has happened.

We came to Oslo and went into quarantine right away. It was mandatory and we were also thinking: it will do us good to spend 10 days relaxing at home, going for nature walks and investigating the selection of the nearby supermarket (Rema 1000 chain - I love when there are thousands in names, like Ziggy 3000, etc.). We were also staying in an apartment on the outskirts of Oslo, on a small mountain. There were almost no people, a lot of trees and snow and one road that was mostly used by buses and trucks. Oh, there was also a church and a tiny graveyard. What I'm trying to say that the place was only officially part of Oslo, but it wasn't Oslo city and if you didn't remind yourself that you're in Oslo you might as well be in Canada or Magadan.

During our first days we've received an sms from... well, from Oslo itself. The sms was in English and said that the coronavirus is spreading so everything will be closed except the farmacies, the grocery stores and schools (but only because they will switch to code red operations, whatever that means). We thought: cool, they sent sms even to people with non-Norwegian phone numbers and the sms are in English. The lockdown sounded more like what we were used to in Berlin, we were not phased by that.

But, the quarantine has ended and the airbnb hose went crazy and we needed to go to Oslo, like, the city center, the National Theater area, to print out some papers, buy some envelopes (we switched from doing everything digitally online to doing everything German style with paper and snail mail thanks to this one asshole whose name doesn't deserve to be called on the pages of this monologue). Anyway, we were rushing to get the printout and the envelopes -- end of Saturday and on Sunday most of the places are closed (German style, again). We were able to finish all the side-quests and decided to take a slow stroll back to the station to head home (to our new airbnb flat with the nicest owner). And then we've noticed... Nothing is closed in Oslo. Nothing. The feeling was weird and it took us a couple of blocks of walking to realize: we haven't seen a big street looking like that in more than a year! All the stores were open. People were walking without masks on. Folks were sitting in cafes and restaurants (with extra distance between the tables though). It was like... coming to a foreign country for the first time after you've spent your whole life in a post-soviet (or even soviet) country. Look at all the stores, look at all the people buying stuff, look at the choices and the lights and the names.

But what about the official SMS and the news on the web that said that we have a lockdown in Oslo?! I don't know. Was it a lie? A misscomunication? A misunderstanding on my part? (Yeah, my English is not very good, I am sorry!). Or, like my friend Benjamin said, maybe they tell this to newcomers so they would stay home while the rest of the nation enjoys their home decoration shopping and their special Swedish February buns called "semla".
