Had my birthday loop recently. That probably explains these thoughts...

Birthdays are stupid. So are new years. A birthday - if you think about it - can only happen once. There is no real way to be born and then to be born again. Yes, there are born again <insert religion here>. But for those people it's just a way to translate the significance of what happened to them. No actual birth was happening when someone re-discovered Jesus. Also people coming back to life after a clinical death are not born again. They are saved, medicated, doctored from a near-death experience.

Birth is a very specific process. At least for humans. We all know (I hope) how it happens. It's extremely physiological and concrete. We can argue about the soul, the mind, vim vs emacs but we cannot argue about the actual process of being born or giving birth. So knowing that we must know that you, me, everyone get one birthday: the day when your mom pushed you out through pain and suffering. Or maybe you've been pulled out like me but these are details. Still happened only once and will never happen again.

Now. New years. Stupid. Just a thing that someone invented and everyone followed along. A way to count.... something I guess. The idea itself is okay. We've got a lot of this kind of not-real things humans came up with to make life measurable. But a new year as an event? I lived in Thailand for a few years. We had three new years in one... year? See? Already confusing. There was the Chinese new year, the Thai new year and the boring ol' 1st of January new year (aka let's spend the night eating as much food as possible, cause why not). So it's a hack. You can have it every day for all I care. If you like celebrations the new year is great but it still makes no sense.

What makes even less sense is the new year's resolutions. BTW, when I was 15 or even 20 years old there were no resolutions for new years. No one made plans to start exercising and quit smoking. We just ate all night and then had a full fridge of leftovers. And that was the new year. The new year tree (yeah, it's not a Christmas tree where I'm from) was disassembled or thrown away. People went on with their unhealthy unproductive gray post-soviet lives. BTW, there was (and still is) an old new year. So I guess when I was in Thailand I've had four new years to celebrate. Like I've said. Stupid.

So how to fix this mess? Of course I have a solution. Why else would I spend time writing this down.

Hear me out.

The only new year that makes sense to celebrate is your new year. Your personal new year. You lived for one more year and you're starting another year. So you're getting a chance of living some more. So instead of having a birthday, you're having a new year. When you wake up that day you're thinking "my new year is starting, should I do anything differently?". And that's when you do your new year's resolutions. On your personal new year. Not with everyone else on 1st of January.

I am not saying we need less holidays and reasons to celebrate. We just need to celebrate things that make sense even more. The nonsensical celebrations are basically cheat days to be free and silly for a second.
