Dark background. Dark thoughts. Tokyo nights.
It's been more than a month of me not working. Cause I don't have to. Cause I've been restructured away.
This if fine it happens everywhere now. I was really sure I'm super valuable so it can't happen to me. Well. I'm not that valuable and anything could happen to me. This is at least a good reminder of that.

I have been busy though. I haven't just spent this month watching Netflix and thinking how everyone is wrong and how everyone will be sorry they don't have my brilliant mind now. Nah. Not my style. At least not any more. Not at the moment.

I have been coding. At first it was frantically doing exercises. LeetCode style. Interview style. Trying to remember the data structures I've never used in my actual professional life. But then I've gotten into this grove of things: work on the 8086 simulator, read on a data structure or an algorithm that actually sounds interesting, try to implement it, try to learn from it, read a book, make notes, go through some Anki decks based on those notes, have dinner, read some fiction, sleep, wake up, workout, repeat.

I have been growing my interest in all things computer. Like that time when I was a little boy and didn't have a computer and had to watch at computers in movies and TV. I was really interested then but I didn't know how to learn.

So it's been kinda both stressful and valuable at the same time. I have time to just look at some functions, try different languages, do weird shit. I'm still stressed that I don't have a job. I'm still stressed that I feel betrayed and left behind. I'm still stressed from not knowing what will next month look like. But this last part is really dumb. I didn't ever know how next month looks like. Or next day. I had assumptions. Now I just have less of them and it's making me nervous. But also... free in some sense. It means there's room for anything. Even for something good.

Anyway, if you want to read something more coherent slide into my LinkedIn. I've been also writing articles there for nobody really.

Here? Oh I'm writing this for myself. I suck at journaling cause I write slower than I type. So here. I type.
