This is about how I’ve read a book while being on a holiday trip.

I use Airbnb when I travel. I do like hotels but in some places there are no hotels. And overall apartments are cozier than most of the hotel rooms I’ve spent time in.

The thing about Airbnb apartments is the owners will try to fill the apartments with things: some for decoration others for entertainment. The other thing is the guests will bring their own things with them and if the things are considered temporary the guests will leave them for the next guests to appreciate. It can be extra pack of sugar or salt, coffee or coffee filters, condiments, magazines, and books. And since the guests are all random tourists, business travellers, migrants the books are all random.

And this is why I always check the piles and rows of books - if there are any - in every Airbnb apartment I’m staying. Actually, in any apartment I’m in but people don’t ask me to come over often.

During this one particular holiday - planned as always by my wife - I’ve been staying in a nice apartment on an Atlantic Ocean coast, Tenerife island. I had my collection of ebooks with me with two books in progress, but… there were two shelves with books. This was the last apartment of the trip - the first two only had books in Spanish or German. The books were Spanish, German and even Polish. I don’t read in any of these languages… yet. But this time there was one English book. It really didn’t look like it was planned to be there: it wasn’t about the Canary Islands, Tenerife, Spain or something generically holiday themed - diving, biking, easting. The front cover had a  picture of a yellow spotted lizard drawn simply as by an amateur artist or a really talented kid, the background was a blurry photo of desert looking landscape and blue sky. It was a very cheap looking book from the era when books where not trendy yet bit have already became a mass produced item that not many people appreciated really.

The title was “holes”. Yeah, lowercase. The author name was “louis sachar”. I’m guessing his name was written in a consistent manner to the title and that in reality he would write his name with first letters in capital but who knows, I didn’t care enough to double check. There were the usual quotes from the famous periodicals that I know from the movies but have never actually read. The description was vague and useless as all descriptions that they put on paperback covers. I wonder why they bother and I would really like to know of anyone is choosing a paperback based on the description written on the back cover… or those generic quotes - “Fantastic!”.

There were nothing to choose from. I had stuff to read but I’ve still opened the first page and started reading. I just came in from an hour long bus ride, it was hot and sunny outside, the balcony was open and the ocean was all cool and wavy and the wind was all salty and also cool, so why no sit in the shade of the balcony with a book, a paper book. After going all the way to ebooks I have less and less time spent with paper books. So I guess it was kinda like an extra luxury of the last leg of the trip.

And I couldn’t stop reading for the next day and a half.

Sometimes I will start reading a book and I know right away I will enjoy it. And sometimes I do if the author doesn’t mess it up. And sometimes they do.

The thing about this book is it’s about young people. And I’m a sucker for books about young people: Stand by Me, It (the first half), Papertowns (or pretty much anything by Green, but this one is the best), The Fat Kid Rules the World… I can probably think about more but it’s not about them it’s about “holes”. I guess I’d like to think that I have never really became an adult - I did grow up into a big harry man with serious face, serious thoughts, serious interests. But I have always felt like a teenager whenI had to talk to other people, like my opinion is probably silly and wrong and I can easily be controlled, ignored or punished. Maybe that’s why I like books about young people, struggling young people, and friendships. When young people struggle together and there’s no moral being jammed into readers’ eyes, that’s what I like to read. And no, I don’t need the characters to struggle through a magic maze or and endless fight to the death or wiggle their wands in a school of magic (I did enjoy the story of HP though).

Anyway, this is that kind of book. The main character is someone I cared about, his friend - the same. The struggles are real, the adventures are there. But there’s something else. I adore Steinbeck’s “Cannery Row”. “Holes”… sorry, “holes” reminds me of that book. It’s also full of folklore, modern folklore weaved into the main story, only unlike Steinbeck, Sachar kept the folklore extremely tight and related to the main story. Everything ties into everything into everything. I had to stop and think many times: “Did Sachar had a giant map of sticky notes with strings connecting them? How did he kept everything so neat and didn’t lose a single line?” Once, I’ve tried to be a writer and even after five years of practice and learning the trade I could never come close to such level of not having random things in the story.

I’m going to try and give hints about the plot. This is not that kind of show. I’m just going to say “Fantastic!”.
