My ex-colleague has started a blog. Or maybe the blog was always there and was simply waiting for my ex-colleague to get re-structurized out of a full-time employment (together with me). But anyway, the blog is good. It has topics on gamedev and software development in general. It has even a serious analysis of the dating sites/apps industry with constructive criticism and words like "grit" and "idealism". It has pictures and videos of the work he has done. And it only has four posts at the moment. And it made me scared and jealous when I saw it.

How I found out about the blog is that I've received a message from him with the link. And I've read it and recognized the smartness I had to deal with on the daily basis for the last two and half years. "I have a blog too", I thought and sent him my link. But then I've started thinking. When people, potential employers for example, see his blog they will read the thoughts of a smart and experienced engineer who's passionate about software development in general not only in his 9-5 (or in his schedule 11-whenever) time. And when they open my blog they will see random thoughts, bare emotions, typos riding typos into the typos, sometimes tech related stuff, complaining. And don't get me started about the UI/UX of his blog vs mine.

So I've jumped out from my sofa and ran to my computer chair (well, not my chair, I'm renting the apartment with everything in it) and was about to delete my blog, create something nice and technical, with links and screenshots. And then I though: "Wait! You are how old? Put the console down and go have some tea, you idiot!". (Yep, I call myself idiot, I do it a lot). If people see my blog and think that they don't like it, it means they would probably not like me, the author, as well. I'm me. I think how I think, I write what I write. I am full of emotions and failed attempts of being a writer, a musician, a crossfitter, a ninja, a lead singer and many other things (yes, I'm that old). I've created my blog the way I wanted it to look and feel. It's not the reflection of me but it gives a reader a glimpse of the original. I didn't invent a smart and funny persona, I didn't post more about my good days. I've just... shared. I share a lot. That's what I do.

In closing. (Yep, stole this phrase from his blog). This blog stays. Until it's not needed to me anymore.
